
Chapter 1.1 Review Questions

35. Input value x = 1.0: Output = 1.0
      Input value x = 5.1: Output = no output
      Input value x = 2.4: Output = 2.4
      Input value x = 7.2: Output = 7.2
      Input value x = 5.3: Output = 5.3
37. A = Value1 < Value2     B = Number is odd
      (A v B)' v (A' ^ B)
      (A' v B') v (A; ^ B)
      A' ^ (B' v B)
      A' ^ (B v B')
      A' ^ 1
      A'
      A' = not (Value1 < Value2)
      result: 
      if not (Value1 < Value2)
      then
      	statement1
      else
      	statement2
      end
38. (A ^ B)’ ^ C = not A and not B and C. Yes, this does what we want because it prints out statement 1 due to both A and B being false while C is true.
61. Percival is a truthteller. If he was a liar, then his statement "At least one of us is a liar" would contradict itself. If both Percival and Llewellyn are liars, then Percival is speaking the truth with his statement, therefore he can't be the liar. If only Percival is a liar but Llewellyn is the truth teller, then again Percival's statement is the truth, therefore Percival is not a liar. Finally, since we have established that Percival cannot be lying, and he states that one of them is a liar, then that means Llewellyn has to be a liar due to Percival's true statement. 
62. Both Merlin and Meredith are truthtellers. If Merlin is a liar, then his statement "If I am a truthteller, then Meredith is a truthteller" is a false statement, implying that both Merlin and Meredith are liars. If Merlin is a truthteller, then his statement is a true statement, implying that both Merlin and Meredith are truthtellers. However, if Merlin is a liar, then the "then" part of his statement is a lie, implying that if Merlin is a truthteller, then Meredith is the opposite. From this we can infer that both Merlin and Meredith are truthtellers. 
63. Both Rothwold and Grymlin are truthtellers. If Rothwold is a liar, then his statement "Either I am a liar of Grymlin is a truthteller" is false. However, since the statement can't be true and false at the same time, we can assume that Rothwold is a truthteller. Since Rothwold is a truthteller, he is speaking truth when saying that Grymlin is a truthteller. 
64. Both Gwendolyn and Merrilaine are Liars. If Gwendolyn is a truthteller, then the statement "I am a liar but Merrilaine is not" can't be true, since Gwendolyn can't be a liar. However, if Gwendolyn is a liar, then although part of his statement says he is a liar, which is the truth, he is still lying about the part where Merrilaine is not. Therefore, Gwendolyn is a liar, and is lying about Merrilaine not being a liar, implying that Merrilaine is a liar as well. 